---
video: https://drive.google.com/file/d/18pOZ2hYfWJCu22G9YP2jVm0dkR3780I1
---



## *Harmonic Collection* review

Let’s take a look at some of your entries for this week:

[*Harmonic Collection* entries](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vXYVnicRUHnczxPCSaqsmmflynnwP22zhES5jFMPKpw/)
{: .icon-link .two-below }

I’d like you to explain your theme and then show us the page for your first entry. Also tell us what your challenges were, and where you’d like to improve/expand with more time and skills. We’re all in this together! And now’s the time to ask questions.

*Feel free to volunteer, but otherwise I will be randomly selecting folks. We’ll review entries throughout the semester.*

*Let’s also briefly talk about [hosting terminology](https://veryinteractive.net/pages/vocabulary.html).*



## And then, CSS!

We’ll start to make these entries look *good*.

[An intro to CSS](/topic/css)
{: .icon-link }



> We’ll break in here, likely mid-CSS-intro. It’s another long one.
{: .callout icon='🥱'}



## Demo time!

We’re going to work through getting a stylesheet connected and trying out some styles.

*Please help me remember to resume the recording, this time!*
{: .two-below }

1. Let’s first make an index page so we don’t have to remember our URLs.

    Create an `index.html` file in your project repository. Remember, `index` is a special name that will load when you leave off the filename from a URL.

    In it, make [a list](/topic/html/#lists) element with a link to your first project:

    ```html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Harmonic Collection</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <h1>Harmonic Collection</h1>
        <p>Your name</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <a href="entry-1.html">Entry 1</a>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

    We’re officialy a web *site* now, with multiple pages!

1. Create another page for your second entry; call this one `entry-2.html`, like your first. You can copy your first entry, as a starting point.

1. Add a link to this in your `index.html`, above. And then as we go forward, remember to add links to your index page!

1. Back in `entry-2.html`, let’s experiment with adding [some styles](/topic/css/#some-basic-properties) to our page:

    - Try some inline styles on an element, first
    - Move these up to a `<style>` tag in your `<head>`
    - Create an `entry-2.css` doc and move your styles over there
    - Add a `<link>` to this from the page’s `<head>`:

    ```html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Entry 2</title>
        <link href="entry-2.css" rel="stylesheet">
      </head>
      <body>
        <!-- Your HTML content. -->
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

    This is generally the way we’ll be working with styles, with a [separate, linked](/topic/css/#where-css-lives) CSS file.
    {: .two-above }

1. Be sure to *commit* your work into your repo and *push* as we go along, as is custom! If it is only on your computer, it’s not online.



------------



## For next week



- Read the whole dang [CSS lecture](/topic/css) above, in detail. Again, we’re going to have to fly through this stuff, to some extent—but I expect you to use these as references for your work. (And I will know it if I see it.)

- Complete the second entry for your [*Harmonic Collection*](/project/harmonic) projects, and add a link in the tracking doc as before:

  [*Harmonic Collection* entries](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vXYVnicRUHnczxPCSaqsmmflynnwP22zhES5jFMPKpw/)
  {: .icon-link}

  This should make use of the various CSS from today! Go wild on fonts; I am excited to see what you come up with. We can rein it all in later. Or not.

