---
---



## Reading discussion

Let’s start by discussing our reading:

[*A Software Design Manifesto* responses](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nTweY_mL9g7GXOI8x56TfnTDz0b847qeIj0Hroil_QA)
{: .icon-link .two-below }

*Don’t make me call on you—I don’t want to do it either! We’ll skip reviewing our entries as a group this week, to get into new content.*



## Jekyll, Liquid, and Markdown!

We’ll discuss a few systems for working more easily with HTML (I hope):

[Jekyll, Liquid, and Markdown](/topic/jekyll-liquid-markdown)
{: .icon-link }



> Back to our standard mid-lecture break somewhere in here, as we do.
{: .callout icon='🤯'}



## Let’s try it out

We’ll be using the [template repo](https://github.com/core-interaction/harmonic-collection) to explore Jekyll/Liquid/Markdown together. Here’s a little agenda:

- What is a `README.md`?
- How about `.gitignore`?
- Quickly, *the terminal*
- Build with `bundle exec jekyll serve --watch`
- Go through `_config.yml` settings
- *Front-matter* to specify a layout, variables
- Nesting of layouts (for entries)
- `include` and entry-specific CSS (first entry)
- Markdown parsing (second entry, turn off reset)
- Structured data (third entry, show `for` loop)
- Add an entry, if we have time



---



## For next week

- Go through our Jekyll demo/exercise and the [template repo](https://github.com/core-interaction/harmonic-collection), getting it building on your machine. Kick the tires, as they say.

	Then consider using it for your projects! It will be some work to adapt (in software parlance, to *port* or *refactor*) your projects to this, but obviously will be easier to write structured, repeated HTML.

- Complete a seventh entry for your [*Harmonic Collection*](/project/harmonic) projects and add it to the doc, as is custom:

	[*Harmonic Collection* entries](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vXYVnicRUHnczxPCSaqsmmflynnwP22zhES5jFMPKpw/)
	{: .icon-link}

